release: 2.66 (#14566)
canonical/snapd: NEWS.md

# New in snapd 2.66:
* AppArmor prompting (experimental): expand kernel support checks
* AppArmor prompting (experimental): consolidate error messages and add error kinds
* AppArmor prompting (experimental): grant /v2/snaps/{name} via snap-interfaces-requests-control
* AppArmor prompting (experimental): add checks for duplicate pattern variants
* Registry views (experimental): add handlers that commit (and cleanup) registry transactions
* Registry views (experimental): add a snapctl fail command for rejecting registry transactions

> * Registry views (experimental): allow custodian snap to implement registry hooks to modify and save registry data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Registry views (experimental): allow custodian snaps to implement registry hooks that modify and save registry data
```

Author: Fixed

> * Registry views (experimental): compute view/plugs affected by modified path

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Registry views (experimental): run view-changed hooks only for snaps plugging views affected by modified paths
```

Author: Fixed

* Registry views (experimental): make registry transactions serialisable
* Snap components: handle refreshing components to revisions that have been on the system before
* Snap components: enable creating Ubuntu Core images that contain components
* Snap components: handle refreshing components independently of snaps
* Snap components: handle removing components when refreshing a snap that no longer defines them
* Snap components: extend snapd Ubuntu Core installation API to allow for picking optional snaps and components to install
* Snap components: extend kernel.yaml with "dynamic-modules", allowing kernel to define a location for kmods from component hooks

> * Desktop IDs: add desktop-file-ids plug attribute to desktop interface

Reviewer 2: This is duplicated in line 38, maybe we should remove it here
`* desktop interface: add desktop-file-ids plug attr to desktop interface`

Author: fixed, removed it here.

* Auto-install snapd on classic systems as prerequisite for any non-essential snap install
* Support loading AppArmor profiles on WSL2 with non-default kernel and securityfs mounted
* Debian/Fedora packaging updates
* Add snap debug command for investigating execution aspects of the snap toolchain
* Improve snap pack error for easier parsing
* Add support for user services when refreshing snaps

> * Add support for store controlled forceful removal of malicious snaps 

Reviewer 2: Since store part is still not available, I think we should only mention that removal with `--terminate` is now possible.

```suggestion
* Add snap remove --terminate flag for terminating running snap processes
```

Author: fixed

* Add support for store controlled forceful removal of malicious snaps 
* Support building FIPS complaint snapd deb and snap
* Fix to not use nss when looking up for users/groups from snapd snap
* Fix ordering in which layout changes are saved
* Patch snapd snap dynamic linker to ignore LD_LIBRARY_PATH and related variables
* Fix libexec dir for openSUSE Slowroll
* Fix handling of the shared snap directory for parallel installs
* Allow writing to /run/systemd/journal/dev-log by default 
* Avoid state lock during snap removal to avoid delaying other snapd operations
* Add nomad-support interface to enable running Hashicorp Nomad
* Add intel-qat interface
* u2f-devices interface: add u2f trustkey t120 product id and fx series fido u2f devices
* desktop interface: improve integration with xdg-desktop-portal
* desktop interface: add desktop-file-ids plug attr to desktop interface

> * desktop-legacy interface: support desktop-file-ids in desktop files rule generation

Reviewer 2: The same was also done to unity7 interface https://github.com/canonical/snapd/pull/14444
```suggestion
* desktop-legacy interface: support desktop-file-ids in desktop files rule generation
* unity7 interface: support desktop-file-ids in desktop files rule generation
```

* desktop-legacy interface: grant access to gcin socket location
* login-session-observe interface: allow introspection

> * custom-device interface: allow to explicitly identify matching device in udev tagging block 

Reviewer 3: did we update the docs for this?

Author: @ZeyadYasser, would you please check docs for this?

Reviewer 2: Is this related to the newly added `udev-tagging.for-device` attr? if that's the case then yes, it is documented https://snapcraft.io/docs/custom-device-interface
